# Superstore PowerBI Dashboard with Time Series Forecasting

## Project Overview : 
*Contribute to the success of business by using data analysis techniques, specially focusing on time series analysis, to provide valuable insights and accurate sales forecasting.*

## Metadata of dataset :

**Row ID** => Unique ID for each row.

**Order ID** => Unique Order ID for each
Customer.

**Order Date** => Order Date of the product.

**Ship Date** => Shipping Date of the Product.

**Ship Mode**=> Shipping Mode specified by the Customer.

**Customer ID** => Unique ID to identify each Customer.

**Customer Name** => Name of the Customer.

**Segment** => The segment where the Customer belongs.

**Country** => Country of residence of the Customer.

**City** => City of residence of of the Customer.

**State** => State of residence of the Customer.

**Postal Code** => Postal Code of every Customer.

**Region** => Region where the Customer belong.

**Product ID** => Unique ID of the Product.

**Category** => Category of the product ordered.

**Sub-Category** => Sub-Category of the product ordered.

**Product Name** => Name of the Product

**Sales** => Sales of the Product.

**Quantity** => Quantity of the Product.

**Discount** => Discount provided.

**Profit** => Profit/Loss incurred.

## Objective of project - 

1. **DASHBOARD CREATION** - identify KPIs, design an intuitive appealing dashboard, add interactive visualization, and filtering, which allows the users to explore the data at various levels of granularity.

2. **DATA ANALYSIS** - Provide valuable insights to business entities for the effectiveness of their sales strategies through visualization and charts.

3. **SALES FORECASTING** - Leverage historic data and apply time series analysis to generate sales forecasts for next 15 days.

4. **RECOMMENDATION** - End goal is to share valuable insights and actionable information that can drive strategic decision-making and support the supermarket's goals for growth, efficiency and customer satisfaction.

## Key features -

1. **KPIs** 
   - Total Sales made by the store.

   - Total number of orders received by the store.
   
   - Amount of profit generated by the total orders.
   
   - Average no. of days it takes for a order to get delivered to the customer. This is calculated using DAX query. 

2. **Donut Charts**
   - percentage of sales segment wise. 
   - percentage of sales by payment mode.
   - percentage of profit by region 

3. **Area Charts**
    - <ins>sales by month and year - </ins>      showing trends of sales over two          years.

    - <ins>Sum of profit by month and years</ins> - showing profit generated over two years. 

4. **Horizontal Bar Charts**
     - Categorical Sale
     - Sub-categorical contribution to Sales
     - Sales by Shipping mode.
     - Statewise Sales 


5. **Map**
     - Showing Sales and profit          Statewise. 

6. **Line Charts** -
     - Two charts have been made and forecasting of sales has been done by using advanced features. 
     - Both line Charts are sales trend and one is the zoomed version of the forecast. 

7. **Slicers** - Slicers have been attached to know the insights for a particular region.

 
## Insights  
 
1. 48% of the total sales are made by Consumer segment of buyers.

2. Customers prefers Cash on Delivery mode, over cards and online.

3. West region contributed to 39% sales while central only contibuted about 16%. 

4. Total Sales of 1.57M has been made.

5. Total orders 22k. 

6. Profit of $175.26k generated over the course of two years.

7. It takes average of 4 days to deliver a order. 

8. Most of the customers buy office supplies.

9. In the subcategory, Phones are the popular choice among the customers.

10. Orders delivered by standard mode made the maxiumum sales, hence customer choose standard class. 

11. Sales are highest in 2020, than they were in 2019, that means there is a growth in our business. 

12. These is also upward trend in the amount of profit generated between 2 years. 

13. California has contributed to the most sales, i.e. 0.34M 

14. If we go by the forecasting model, sales are going to be medium for the next 15 days.
    
